# ----------------------------------- NOTES ---------------------------------- #
✅  HTML CSS NOTES
{
    this can be used to create variables in css
    :root{
        --size-box = 250px;
    }   
    .box{
    width: (--size-box);
    }

    LEARN BOX SIZING
    content-box is the total of the content size so the total will be 250 + the other stuff. 
    the border-box will set the total size as 250 so content could be 210

    position fixed will basically take that child element out of that parent divs and fix it on the screen
    position absolute on the child means that the position will move acording to its parent element. 

    @media query 
    Css Done. 

    BEM
    block element modifier

    id has higher priority over class selector

    difference between input type= button ?
    and button tag is that the input tag is something called self closed you cannot put anything in between the input tag
    in a button tag you can put stuff in between it. 

    difference between type submit and type button?
    type submit will trigger the form on submit event. then it wont refresh the page. 
    SPA Single page application

    Use electron to build destop applications.
    * universal selector
    ::before is a pseduoselector
    css reset is done to reset default and make sure it behaves the same in all browsers and to make sure you can create your own default
    We use *::before, *::after because the universal selector does not select upseudo elements. 
    html{
         if you want to ser the root font size you can use 
         font-size: 62.25% // this is 10px which is 16px * 62.25% the reason why we are using percentage is because 
         it can be used to scale for 508 compliance if you use 10px it overrites it and does back to default.
    }
    this basically changes the now you can use rem.
    this way 1 will be 


    margin auto helps center horizontally ONLY!
    flexbox is for 1 dimentional layout. It is more popular and is supported on almost all browsers and all mobile devices
    css grind is for 2 dimentinoal layout. Now very popular and isnt supported of few browsers
    flex-wrap can be used to send things to another line

    media query you can say flex- direction to column.

    Header/nav bar
    for nav bar all you have to do is set the 
    position: sticky;
    top: 0;
    when you say sticky you have to give it top 0

    FOOTER
    for  footer make it fixed and set bottom:0
    then when the page shrinks to make it responsive re set the position to relative because the content will go behind the footer because it is fixed so do this.
}

✅  JavaScript Basics
{
    Web 2.0 Ajax
    //javascript = ES + browser API(because it is running by the browser is a document API which can be used by JS but not NodeJs)
    ES is the standard. 
    Node js is similar to ES  but it used NodeApi files, pathsetc which cannot be used by JS
    ducument is part of browser API so nodejs wont be able to acces it.
    primitive is just the value not the reverence to the memory location(reference).

    var is hoisted to the start of the function scope. let and const also does hoisting but the thing 
    is they it is hoisted to the block and it CANNOT be accessed before initialization.
    === DO RESEARCH
}   

✅  JavaScript Advance
{
    No overloading in JS classes only over writing so that means the last class with the same name will be invoked. 
}   

✅  JQuery some Css
{
    display none will just hide it from the display. It will also remove the space taken by that element.
    It is important to know that the tag will still be ther in the dom. 
    The fade in basically cahanges the opacity from 1 to 0 and then sets the item to display none. This means the item will no longer be there there on the screen but it will be there in the dom
    This also means that thee space ocupied will be removed. 
}

✅  React JSX
{
    import is JS module es6

    What is the Package.json?
    package.json is a JSON file that exists in the root of the Js/node project. It holds metadata relavant to the project
    and is used to manage the project's dependancies, scripts, libraries/pacakages used version number and a whole lot more. 
    It holds the dependancies that our application needs in order to work.

    npm i react react-dom? what is this?
    these are the two things that we need to use for the react libraries methods and features to use react. It also enables us to write in JSX

    package-lock.json what does that do?

    -from lecture 
        -savces the version of dependencies use for the project 
        the ^ char in from of the version is called dependency version system. Which means its some version system. I need to google.
        PLJ will tell you what exact version was installed on our side for the application. 

    For example in our pacakge.json we have some versions. These versions refer to the current version number that is used to build the application
    if incase in the future the library or pacakge updates that can break our code. so pacakge-lock gives us that ability to lock 
    the version number so that the application will use that version of the library/package
    The goal of package-lock.json file is to keep track of the exact version of every package that is
    installed so that a product is 100% reproducible in the same way even if packages are updated by their maintainers.

    What is the nodemodules ??
    It actually holds all the libraries and the packages that you installed. This folder can get very large depending on how many things you use.
    package.json can be used to download all the nodemodules files.

    what is babel ?
    babel is used to transpile your newer JS syntax to older syntax that is accepted by browsers.
    bable can also convert JSX syntax this can be done with React-preset There are many babel packages to install for a react appplication these are

        1. @babel/core
            -it is the basic pacakge that is needed to be installed.
        2. @babel/preset-env
            -this is used when we need to use the latest versions of JS and we need to transpile to code into brower understood JS. 
        3. @babel/preset-react
            -take JSX code into vanila JS code. 
        4. babel-loader
            -allows us to connect to webpack. it maybe doing that by first transpiling and then bundling


}

✅ create-react-app
{
    public folder
    is the folder with the files that we will be sending to the client. 

    Favicon ?
    favicon is the tab icon 

    %PUBLIC URL% ?
    this is something related to the webpack.

    manifest.json ?
    config file providing metadata related to PWA progressive web app.
    create shorcuts to our application 

    PWA 
    helps us handel something in offline module with some metadata about the pplication 

    robot.txt?
    some thing about web robots look it up!!

    npm i will check check the package.lock.json and will acordingly set the version in the package.json. 

    What is Read Me? and then what is .mo for ?
    .md is a file format you can use a mark down language. It does some formating and makes it look nice and stuff. even html
    is a markup language. 
    the read me file helps you to make some documentation stuff. 

    *** Why can you not see the @babel the @webpack and stuff in the package.json in create-react-app??
    react-script it has dependencies like webpack and babel therefore we do not need to import it. inside react-scriot in node_modules
    you will find the webpack and the babel and all that stuff. It is hidden behind the scenes.

    what is start scritp?
    start is to start our development server

    what is build script ?
    it is used to build an efficient production ready folder that can be used for hosting. It also helps to do some minify.
    
    minify?
    it helps to minimize the size of the file. also like uglify

    test script?
    it helps us to run test. 

    react-script test is using this test library to run our test file. 
    app.test.js is what it will run 

    WHAT IS TREE SHAKING ? roll up.js they provide tree shaking. 
    it is a technology helps us reduce the bundle size.
    helps us reduce redundant code. 
    tree shaking will remove all the redundant code. 

    .map inside the build folder for the file extension 
    this somethign that helps us to convert our minimized file back to a regular file this way we can see it. it is called source map
    helps convert our production code to development code. It will help us read the code and debug stuff. 

    eject script ?
    eject will basically remove the default react-script features. so that way you can do some customizations and stuff. 

    dom is a tree structure
    

    higher order component 
    a function that takes component as prop and returns a new component
}

✅ HOC
{
    Why do we need HOC?
    we need it to reuse some logic 
    specifically lifecycle methods and other logic.

    render logic
    decoupling the logic or some state stuff or the render logic.
}

✅ Redux {
    it is a state management tool 
    It is a library that helps your do some logic
    it can be used with any native JS not only react.
}


✅ HOOKS{
    React 16.8 is what has hooks!
    some licensing also changed.
}

✅ Type script
{
    disable an ancor tag?
    picture is in phone
    REACT WAS USING PROP TYPES BEFORE 
}

✅ Testing
{
    Why do we need testing?
    We write testing to make some certain things happen. to make sure some certain logic
    is happening.
    BDD is something you can say at the interview.
    We are going to do unit testing for react.

    What is TDT?
    Test driven Tevelopment. 
    is relating to software development testing not for front end.

    BDT behaivior driven tsting
    is relating to software development testing not really for.
    You hvave to make sure your test cases are based on user cenairio. 
    like for example user has to be logged in after this.
    it is for normal pepole to undersatnd. 

    which testing library to use?
    use the testing library given to you from cra 

    how to write the test cases?
    App.test.ts....
    open terminal and run the test by doing.. npm run test (react-scripts test)
    it uses webpack config to read all files under src and it will check for .test.tsx. or some sort of test extension
    react was originially using jsmin for testing so we can use .spec.
    test() is a function 
    jest.It is proving thise function.
    or you can called it it()

    test()
    expect('test').toBe('test)


    you can also use___________________
    The render() helps us do something known as shallow testing.
    to use that we should do import {render,fireEvent} from '@testing-library/react'
    
    you can us fireevent to check something like on click.

    describe('button',()=>{
        it('render default btn',()=>{
            
        })

        it('render corrent btn based on different props
        ',()=>{

            const btnProps = {
                onClick: jest.fn(),
            }

            const wrapper = render(<Button {...btnProps}>Default Button</Button>);
            const element = wrapper.queryByTest('Default Button) as HTMLElement ---- this will basically return anything even null as a HTMLElement
            expect(element).toBeInTheDocument()
tobeinthe document helps us see if the element is in te wrapper or in the element or somehting like that.
      //this tagName return in upper case form  so...    expect(element:tagName).toBe('button')
        //change the toBe('BUTTON')
        ..there is something called toEqual to check the value of the Object

        expect(element).toHaveClass('btn btn-ls btn default')
        fireEvent.click(element);
        expect(btnProps.onClick).toHaveBeenCalledTimes(1);
        })
    })

    there are two type of testing JEST BDT
    what kind of testing? we were doing osmethign like unit test
    End to end testing it will test both the UI and the back end. 
    cyprise can be used for E 2 E testing. 
    Unit testing is the baseline though.

    testing coverage should be around 70-80
    what is 20-80 rule 20% of effort to finish 80% of funtionality. 
    for the remaining 20% it will take us 80% of efforts. 

    we should use 70-80 rule for testing coverage. 

    what is snapshot testing?
    it is a hot topic. !!!!
    it is a part of react testing API
    we have render function which we use the destructuring to get container and some text
    snapshot is just somethign that is going to take a string that is used to 
    represent a tag then match the snapshot with some functinon
    it iell kinda give us like a snapshot of the entire tag. So when there is a 
    change it will show us another snapchot and then we can see if the layout 
    changes in anyway. 

    these changes show up as some sorrta error, but that isnt an 
    error it just shows developers waht may have cahnged.
    we can update 'w' on the snap shot to allow for updating failing snapshot 
    interactively. 
}

✅ Git hub 
{   
    merge a feathure branch into the master branch 
    we would porbably need to merge to the development branch.
    in git hub it is called pull request.
    some rules like peer reviews before merging to master branch
    from owner.
}

✅ Create the star rating component
{
    under the components just put a star rating and then in that create the tsx file the scss file and some test stuff 
    and thats it.

    1. create folder star component
    2.  then create the files and the config will do the job.
}

✅  how to publish repo to npm registery 
{
    for the library we do not need the index.html right? yes we dont because we are building a library.
    So what do we do in this case?

    when we use the import ..... from '....'
    what happens?
    it will try to file the file and import button from that export. 

    So what does this mean?
    There are two type of  paths the absolute and the relative path. so when we use the absolute path it will look into the node_modules, if nothing in there then it 
    will look in your global modules. 
    yourn ode envirobment will take a look at your package.json and it will try to see which file is your main file. In the package.json
    you can see something as main: and that is the entry point for your nodejs. If you are going to import
    and export anything then the "module" should have the entry file for the import and the export. 

    this module and this main are the pacakge.json file properties. 
    
    what is treeshaking ?
    it is like a removed unused code. Our webpack is using a library called Rollup.js as an internal bundeler to provide 
    us the ability of tree shaking

    the way we can use this roll up is by enabling your webpack to use es modules taht way 
    you can use import {...} from '...' so this way we dont import the entire file
    we can use only that one thing that we need. 

    the new webpack provides us some tree shaking with the help of es modules. 
    provide the webpack something related to the import export things so like provide the 

    webpack some es module instructions and then your webpack will use rollup to help you figure out which file you are USING
    and which you arent. 

    lazy loading?
    lazy loading i for single page applications. Because we use javascript to load everything. That means our JS
    file at first can be huge so when our browser first loads our JS it is goign to take some time. Inorder to fix this problem
    we use something known as lazy loading. This means we provude it the first thing that is needed and then later we provide the other parts of
    the file. 

    first we need to transpile our TS code to JS and the bundling will be done by the user with their own webpack.
}

✅ TSCONFIG.JSON only some basic explaination!
{
    what is target ?
    we are going to transpile our typescript into ES5 
    alowJs?
    would you like to use some JS also in your TS file?
    skip lib check? 
    no idea

    allowSYnthetic default imports: true!!

    module???
    this module is related to module system or the way inwhich we can do the modeling in JS
    the most classic way for using modules in our native app is we use use a global variable and 
    wrap it with somethign known as an iffe and provide some private scope. this is like 6-7 years ago. 
    later on there is somethign called commonJs 

    what is comonJs 
    the node is originaly supported by commonJs. 

    module in here basically represents one file in our project. 
    for the moduern concepts we use module to do integration between different files "modules"
    this is the module system.

    other module systems
    AMD is also another type of way. 
    UDM is also another one.
    System.js is also another
    ESNExt is also one

    ESNEXT is good enough. 

    mduleResolution shoudl be set to node. to use the run command or somethign...
    
    jsx? 
    this jsx is because we are using it in react so we set it to react. JSX is nothing but syntax sugar!!!
    it helps us to do something like creating React.createElement. its some syntax sugar for that. 

    include means which file we are going to compile using typescript.
    it is everythign under src...

    but then we have so many files under src so do we want everything to be transpiled toproduction?
    no!!!

    so we use somethign called exclude. 
    exclude will help us exclude the files for transpile producton code.

    next is where do we output?
    its called outDir property: this is where we want to output our result. 

    is semantic UI it used the folder called dist.
    the outDir can be somethign like: "dist"

    to use the tsc to config with your custom configureation we use 
    "tsc -p tsconfig.lib.json " this file is the custom config we gave TSC
    you can add this to the scripts. 
    when he did this nothing changed. This seems like somthin is not working. 

    The problem was.....
    the reason is because in our tSconfig we neede to use "outDir" and make it a relative path like "./dist"
    Still nothing changedd though!!!!!
    
    smothign is not working. WHY?????
    I thing the problem is we set the NoEmit to true!
    now when we change that it will output the file. So change that to false. 

    IT means that we donot want a Single folder.
    first we clear up the app more. so we remove the App.tsx 
    we remove the serviceworker file also 
    so we remove the call from the index.tsx also. 
    then the setup test.js remove that also. Because the end user
    dose not need the tests. but we need the files in our github 
    so what we do is we go to our exclude and we put somethign in the exclude that weill remove from "src/setupTests.js" for example.

    No in the index.js we remove all the stuff inside this file and then we do the Import and export stuff
    so import Button from'./' somethwew and then we export the button. 
    some error can come so we can do both together like this export {Button} frmo './'
    when you look at the semantic UI they do somethign like this imprt BUtton from './components/button'
    but they dont say button.js after that because they use the index.js file 

    you can say Export {default} fom './Bnutton';
    this can combine the two lines into one line. 
    but lets make it simpelle and use 

    import _default from './utton'
    export {_default as default};

    now in the index.js we are export {default as Button} from './Components/Button'

    Before that we realize taht there is also a utils so we do not need to provide that to the user. 
    if we make a change to the files and we want to rebuild the project again how should we do that?
    so we have to do that from the command line. 

    So we will do a new script call it "clean" : rm -rf ./dist  , this shoudl remove that dist folder. 
    we used rf and not f because ../dist is a dir and we need to recurrisivle delete using rf.
    btw this is only for the MACBOOK!!!!

    if youre using windows you can use a library called ram rimraf 
    it is unix command that will remove some stuff for node. and node is a cross platform language. 
    

}

